### Virtual Pixels and Tiling
The distortion mapped point may not hit the actual source image, but somewhere beside it,
or even a lot way from the actual image. The solution to this is to pretend the source
image surrounded by an 'infinite' or 'virtual' surface, which is defined by the current
`{@link ImageInterface#virtualPixelMethod}` setting. For details and examples of the
effect of this setting see [Virtual Pixel examples](
https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/misc/#virtual-pixel
) at ImageMagick docs.

This can be very useful for generating distorted, or even undistorted tile patterns of
the source image.

Lens currently supports following virtual pixel methods:
* {@link lens.vpx.BACKGROUND}: {@link ImageInterface#backgroundColor} will be used as
virtual pixel color.
* {@link lens.vpx.EDGE}: Color of the nearest image edge will be used.
* {@link lens.vpx.TILE}: Behaves like if image is infinitely tiled pattern
in all directions.
* {@link lens.vpx.MIRROR}: Similar to tile but each next tile is 'mirrored' previous
tile in all directions.
* {@link lens.vpx.RANDOM}: Use random pixel color from image.
* {@link lens.vpx.TRANSPARENT}: Use transparent color.
* {@link lens.vpx.BLACK}: Use black color.
* {@link lens.vpx.GRAY}: Use gray color.
* {@link lens.vpx.WHITE}: Use white color.
* {@link lens.vpx.HORIZONTAL_TILE}: The image is only tiled horizontally, while the
virtual pixels above and below the tiles are set from the current
`{@link ImageInterface#backgroundColor}`. Useful for full circle
{@tutorial 03.03.arc}.
* {@link lens.vpx.HORIZONTAL_TILE_EDGE}: also tiles the image horizontally across the
virtual space, but replicates the side edge pixels across the other parts of the
virtual canvas space.
* {@link lens.vpx.VERTICAL_TILE}: Similarly the 'Vertical Tile' setting tiles the
image vertically only, with the current `{@link ImageInterface#backgroundColor}` used
to fill in the sides of the image.
* {@link lens.vpx.HORIZONTAL_TILE_EDGE}: Tiles image vertically and replicates the side edge pixels across the rest of
the virtual canvas space.
 

### Invalid Distortion Pixels (Matte)

Sometimes the distortion of a destination pixel does not even 'hit' the vitrual tiled
image! This generally happens when you distort the image using some type of
3-dimensional space distortion method and the pixel 'vector' does not even hit the
source plane in which the image lies. Basically the the result of the distortion
becomes 'undefined' mathematically. In that case the color will be determined from
the `{@link DistortionOptions}#matteColor` setting.

For example when you see 'sky' in a Perspective Distortion, the mathematics for
determining the source image location became 'undefined' (actually it is defined, but
it is not valid from a users forward viewing perspective). As such the `matteColor` is
output for the 'sky'.

Actually the perspective distortion algorithm also manages to include some
'anti-aliasing' information for pixels close to the horizon, though that is uncommon
for such situations.

---

##### Links
* [Virtual Pixels details](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/misc/#virtual-pixel) at
ImageMagick docs.
* [Virtual Pixels section](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#distort_virtual)
at ImageMagick Distort docs.
* [Invalid Distortions Pixels section](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#distort_invalid)
at ImageMagick Distort docs.

---

Navigate: < {@tutorial 02.04.resampling-and-filters}
| ^ {@tutorial 02.00.basic-concepts} | {@tutorial 02.06.virtual-viewport} > 