The virtual viewport represents how the 'real' part of an image, (the part that actually
contains color pixel data), fits in a larger context of a 'canvas'.

{@link lens.Viewport} class is used to utilize virtual viewport.

Virtual viewport is defined by two points:
* `(x1, y1)` — coords of top-left pixel in 'canvas' coordinate space.
You also can think of it as of image offset in that space.
* `(x2, y2)` — coords of bottom-left pixel in 'canvas' coordinate space.

In a fresh, not distorted image these points are `(0, 0)` and
`(imageWidth - 1, imageHeight - 1)`.

Distortion functions are taking in account virtual viewport and operate with viewport
coords, not the image coords. However, in general case these coords are same.


### In the context of {@tutorial 02.02.reverse-pixel-mapping}

Under the hood Lens first makes new blank image and then loops through it's viewport
coords, mapping the source image **viewport** coords to take color from.

There are three ways of how we get the new image viewport coords (and thus it's size)

#### Using source image's viewport

The most common way is just to take source image's viewport. It is used as default
method and is supported by about all distortions. However, it doesn't guarantee that
result image will contain the whole distortion result. In fact, there may be situations
when it will be completely empty.

Have a look at this code:

```javascript
let image; // assume that image is ImageInterface with dimensions 100x100 px

// Move image 100px to the right using Affine Distortion
let distorted = lens.distort(
    image,
    lens.distorts.AFFINE,
    [0, 0, 100, 0],
    {
        bestFit: false,
        async: false
    }
);

console.log(
    distorted.viewport.x1, // 0
    distorted.viewport.y1, // 0
    distorted.viewport.x2, // 99
    distorted.viewport.y2 // 99
);
```  
The `distorted` image will be empty since we moved all the pixels out of viewport
bounds.

#### Calculating 'best fit' viewport

If you set `{@link DistortionOptions}#bestFit` option to `true`, Lens
will calculate the 'best fit' viewport, which will contain whole distorted image.

Unfortunately, not all distortions supports this. If selected distortion doesn't
support best fit viewport calculation, this option will be ignored, and source image
viewport will be used instead.

Also, some distortions may force best fit calculation regardless of `bestFit` option
value.

Let's modify the code above to see how 'bestFit' option works:

```javascript
let image; // assume that image is ImageInterface with dimensions 100x100 px

// Move image 100px to the right using Affine Distortion
let distorted = lens.distort(
    image,
    lens.distorts.AFFINE,
    [0, 0, 100, 0],
    {
        bestFit: true,
        async: false
    }
);

console.log(
    distorted.viewport.x1, // 100
    distorted.viewport.y1, // 0
    distorted.viewport.x2, // 199
    distorted.viewport.y2 // 99
);
```

Now if we'll look at distorted image, it will look the same as original image (well,
almost the same, since it will be resampled).
But if you look at viewport — you'll see that it is different.

Now using that viewport offset, you can properly compose distorted image with other
images.

#### Using user-provided viewport

At last, you can set `{@link DistortionOptions}#viewport` option to provide
custom viewport for distorted image. You can use it e.g. for cropping result or for
enlarging output image to make sure they contain whole image for distortions that
can't calculate best fit.

If you use this option, `bestFit` option will be ignored.

Let's modify our code to see how it works:
```javascript
let image; // assume that image is ImageInterface with dimensions 100x100 px

// Move image 100px to the right using Affine Distortion
let distorted = lens.distort(
    image,
    lens.distorts.AFFINE,
    [0, 0, 100, 0],
    {
        // set viewport to contain distorted image and it's offset
        viewport: new lens.Viewport(0, 0, 199, 99),
        async: false
    }
);

console.log(
    distorted.viewport.x1, // 0
    distorted.viewport.y1, // 0
    distorted.viewport.x2, // 199
    distorted.viewport.y2 // 99
);
```

Now the distorted image will have size of 200x100 px and will contain empty area in
it's left half, and moved image in it's right half.

---

##### Links

* [Viewport section](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#distort_viewport) at
ImageMagick distortions page.
* [Virtual Canvas](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/basics/#virtual_canvas) at
ImageMagick docs.

---

Navigate: < {@tutorial 02.05.virtual-pixels-and-matte}
| ^ {@tutorial 02.00.basic-concepts} 