There are still a few problems with the {@tutorial 02.02.reverse-pixel-mapping}
technique. First of all is that when mapping a pixel from a fixed integer position in
the destination, you can end up with a non-integer position in the source image.
That is a location that falls somewhere between the individual pixels on the source
image. To determine what color should be returned a process called Interpolation is
used to determine the final color for that real position by mixing the colors of the
surrounding pixels.

The Interpolation setting will also handle the case when a part of a distorted image
becomes 'stretched out' so that a single source pixel becomes smeared over a large area
of the destination image. However the opposite is not handled very well by a simple
interpolation method. And that requires other techniques which we will look at below.


### Super Sampling

Interpolation works well for simple image distortions. But if part of the source image
gets compressed into a much smaller area, each destination pixel could actually
require a merging of a much larger area of the source image. Remember pixels are not
really points, but represent a rectangular area of a real image.

This means in some cases we really should be trying to compress a large area of the
source image into a single destination pixel. When this happens a simple Pixel Lookup
will fail, as it only looks up the color at a single 'point' in the source image
(using the surrounding pixel neighbourhood), and does not merge and combine all the
colors of the input image that may have to be compressed into that single pixel.

The result of this is that a destination pixel could end up with an essentially random
color from the source image, rather than an average of all the colors involved. This
is not in itself bad, but when all the pixels in a area doe this you get images with
seemingly random, isolated pixels, Moire effects, and aliased 'stair-casing' effects.
Thin lines also start to look more like dotted and dashed lines, or could disappear
entirely. All these effects are known collectively as Aliasing Artifacts.

One solution to this to more color lookups from the source image, for each and every
pixel in the destination, so as to try and determine a more correct color for each
pixel in the destination image. The simplest solution is generally known as
super-sampling, or over-sampling. See the [Wikipedia Entry on Super-Sampling](
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supersampling).

By taking more samples from the source image, over the area that will map onto each
destination pixel, the final color of that pixel will become a more accurate
representation of distorted image at that point. The more color samples you make,
the more accurate the final color will be, and a smoother more realistic look will
be generated, though the slower the distortion becomes.

Remember this technique only really improves the general look of the destination in
areas where the source image becomes compressed by more than 50%.
In areas where the distortion magnifies the source image, or keeps it about the same
scale, a single Interpolated Look Up of the source image look up will generally
produce a good result with just one single lookup.

One final word of warning. Super-sampling is limited by the number of samples that
was used for each pixel in the final image, and thus the amount of scaling used
in the final resize. This determines the final 'quality' of the distorted image.
But by using larger scaling factors, the distorted image will of course be much much
slower to generate. But have even higher quality, has its limits.

In summary, super-sampling can improve the look of images with only minor distortions,
such as rotations, shears, affine, and simple perspective. But it has limits to the
types of distortions that it can improve.

To use super sampling in Lens, you can set `{@link DistortionOptions}#outputScaling`
option to some value, larger than 1, and then resize produced image. Or even simplier:
set `{@link DistortionOptions}#supersample` option to some value, larger than 1
and thus returned distorted image will be supersampled.


### Area Resampling, for better Distortions

One of the best alternatives to super-sampling methods is Area Re-sampling.

Rather than distorting a larger image and averaging the results by resizing, which is
just taking and averaging more samples from the image, we actually determine exactly
how many pixels from the source image should be merged together (based on the 'scale'
of the distortion at that point) to generate each specific output pixel. That is
figure out a rough 'area' within the source image, each output pixel represents, and
merge (filter) all the pixels in that area according to a resampling filter.

When area re-sampling a distorted image, the area of pixel (window) to get samples
from will not only change position, but also will change size. As such one pixel in
the destination may only need to merge a few source image colors, or even just one
single interpolated color lookup (such as in enlargments). While another pixel
elsewhere in the destination image, may need to sample a very very large number of
pixels to generate the correct final color. Close to infinities it may even have to
include all the pixels in the source image as part of the the sampling process.

Also the area that a destination pixel represents in the source image, may not be a
simple square, circle, or even ellipse but may actually be a highly distorted shape,
according to the distortion being used. Calculating and handling such awkward shapes
can be very time consuming, or near impossible to achieve.

Using an elliptical area of the source image to calculate colors for each destination
pixel, is a method known as Elliptical Weighted Average (EWA) Re-sampling, and was
outlined in the PDF research paper "Fundamentals of Texture Mapping and Image Warping"
by Paul Heckbert (who also wrote the 'zoom' program from which practically all image
resize algorithms are derived).

An ellipse is the perfect shape for either Affine Distortions or Perspective
Distortions. It is especially good for extreme scale reductions. And while not perfect
for other distortions, it is generally a reasonable fit for many other distortions,
such as Arc and Polar Distortions (but not their reverse), as well a radial distortions
like the Barrel Distortion.

But it is a poor fit for non-linear distortion mappings such as De-Polar and Shepards
Distortion, as such it is not used for these distortions.

Super Sample does not have this shape problem as each 'sample' is reverse mapped onto
the destination. So it becomes the better sampling method in such cases. But as
mentioned it may not sample all the pixels needed, or even sample too many pixels.

#### In summary

Using a simple ellipse (EWA resampling) to do 'area resampling' does produce good
results, as all the source pixels involved in scaled, affine or perspective
distortions, will be merged to produce the final color of an individual destination
pixel.

In cases of very non-linear distortions, such as in DePolar Distorts, or
indeterminanate distortions, such as Shepard's Distortion or even ray-tracing, finding
the correct 'Area' to resample all the source pixels needed, becomes prohibitive, and
super-sampling is the best method to improve results.

But for straight tiling, enlargements, and unscaled rotations, a very fast single
'point' interpolated lookup is probably all that is required.

Remember however all resampling techniques are just methods for determining the color
of each individual pixel. It is not actually part of the how an image is distorted,
except with regard to the mapping of locations between destination and source
(or visa-versa if possible).

---
##### Links:
* [Pixel Color Lookup](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#lookup) at
ImageMagick docs.

---

Navigate: < {@tutorial 02.02.reverse-pixel-mapping}
| ^ {@tutorial 02.00.basic-concepts} | {@tutorial 02.04.resampling-and-filters} >