Affine distortion performs scaling, rotation, translation and shearing of image
simultaneously.

It supports `{@link DistortionOptions}#bestFit` option and can calculate
best fit viewport for output image that will contain whole distorted image. 

Affine distortion may be performed in 2 different ways.

### Affine distortion using control points

Affine distortion can be performed using an array of control points mapping:
```javascript
var controlPoints = [u0, v0, x0, y0, /* ... */ , uN, vN, xN, yN];
var result = lens.distort(
  image,
  lens.distorts.AFFINE, // Notice this constant -- this is control points form of affine
  controlPoints
); 
``` 
where in `controlPoints` array  `u*`, `v*` are source image coords and `x*`, `y*` are
destination image coords.

Behavior of distortion differs according to number of control points.

If only one set (4 values) of control points given, only translation will be performed.

If 2 sets (8 values) of control points given — scaling (vertical and horizontal
simultaneously), rotation and translation can be performed.

With 3 sets of control points all affine transformations became available.

When more than 3 sets of control points given, Lens will use Least Squares Fitting to
find the best '3 point' affine distortion matching all the coordinate pairs given.
That means the source image control points may not map exactly to destination image
control points, but a best-fit 'average' of all the points given. For example if you
have a scan of a document, you could locate and map all 4 corners of the document for
an affine distortion to correct for rotation and scaling of the document. In this way
you can get a better 'average' fit based of 4 points rather than 3 points.

Note that while more coordinates can produce a better and more accurate distortion, if
one coordinate pair is very bad, then the least squares fit may not produce a very
good fit at all. Some check to eliminate 'bad coordinate pairs' may be needed.

When using Control points form of an affine distortion, these control point mappints
are mathematically transformed into 6 special numbers which represent the 'coefficients'
of an Affine Projection.


### Affine distortion using affine matrix

The other form of using affine distortion is by using affine matrix:

```javascript
var sx, rx, ry, sy, tx, ty; // Affine coefficients

var distorted = lens.distort(
  image,
  lens.distorts.AFFINE_PROJECTION, // Notice this constant -- this is matrix form of affine
  [sx, rx, ry, sy, tx, ty]
);
```

The 6 floating point arguments, `sx`, `rx`, `ry`, `sy`, `tx`, `ty` are the coefficients
used for the Forward Mapping of points in the source image to the destination image.
That is they are the mathematical values used to map a source image (u, v) to a
destination image (x, y).
 
These in turn form the distortion expressions:
```
Xd = sx*Xs + ry*Ys + tx
Yd = rx*Xs + sy*Ys + ty
```

Where `Xs`, `Ys` are source image coordinates and `Xd`, `Yd` are destination image
coordinates. Internally Lens will reverse the above equations so as to do the
appropriate Pixel Mapping to map `Xd`, `Yd` coordinates to lookup the color at `Xs`,
`Ys` in the source image.

If you already have these coefficients pre-calculated, then you can directly supply
them to Lens to distort the image.

---

##### Links
* [Affine distortion details](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#affine) at
ImageMagick docs.
* [Affine transform details](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/affine/) at
ImageMagick docs.
* [Affine Transformation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affine_transformation) at 
Wikipedia.
* [Affine transformations (and cousins)](http://www.leptonica.org/affine.html) at http://www.leptonica.org

---

Navigate: ^ {@tutorial 03.00.distortions} | {@tutorial 03.02.perspective} >