*See [Arc Distortion](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#arc) at ImageMagick
distortions guide for examples.*

Arc distortion curves image into arc or even into full circle.

By default it will curve the given image into a perfectly circular arc over the angle
given, and without other arguments it will try to preserve the scaling of both the
horizontal center-line of the image, and the image's aspect ratio, as much as possible.

To do this it takes up to four arguments:
* arc angle
* rotation angle
* outer radius
* inner radius

However only the **arc angle** is required, the other arguments are optional, and can be
added as needed, in the sequence given.

Adding the second argument **rotation angle** allows you to rotate the output image
around the circle.

When no specific radius argument has been set, the Arc distortion method takes great
pains to try to ensure the original images scale is preserved as much as possible.
To do this the horizontal center line of the image is set to the 'ideal radius' for the
width and the given *arc angle* of the source image.

This means that if you arc the image over a larger *arc angle*, the radius of the
center-line used will also shrink by the same factor. As such the radius of the
center-line will be smaller and tighter.

If you set large angle over which to arc the image, the bottom edge will hit the center
of the distortion, and beyond, which results in the lower part of the source image
disappearing into oblivion.

The third argument **outer radius** will override the 'ideal' center line radius that
is calculated, so that the top of the image will become a circle of the radius given.
Actual output image will be 2px larger that *outer radius* * 2 to allow anti-aliasing.

The image still remains the same aspect ratio, just scaled so as to fit the circle of
the radius requested. Remember the radius can be floating point, but the center of an
arc will always be aligned to a pixel 'corner', so the resulting image will still be
an even number of pixels wide.

If you provide the fourth **inner radius** argument, you can get complete control of
the width of the ring, or its 'radial height'.

This will distort the radial scaling of the image, and effectively separates the radial
scaling from the 'arc width' or angle of the resulting image. In other words the
original image aspect ratio will no longer be preserved.

You can even force it to completely fill the inside of the circle, wrapping the bottom
edge of the input image at the center, or 'pole' of the distortion.
 
##### Usage example

```javascript
var arcAngle = 360,
rotationAngle = 0,
outerRadius = 100,
innerRadius = 0;

var distorted = lens.distort(
  image,
  lens.distorts.ARC,
  [arcAngle, rotationAngle, outerRadius, innerRadius]
);
```

##### Note about viewport

Arc distortion forces generation of best fit viewport for resulting image regardless of
`{@link DistortionOptions}#bestFit` option. But you can override it by providing custom
viewport via `{@link DistortionOptions}#viewport` option.

Also, arc center will be located at (0, 0), according to generated best fit virtual
viewport. Corresponding real image point can be then found like so:

```javascript
var distorted = lens.distort(image, lens.distorts.ARC, args);

// Find arc center at image real coords
var x = -distorted.viewport.x1;
var y = -distorted.viewport.y1;
``` 

*See [Arc Center Point Placement](
https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#arc_center) at ImageMagick Arc distortion
details*.

#### Arc into Full Circle Rings

Longer images will 'Arc' distort a lot better over very large angles. For example you
can wrap long images (like text messages) into rings.

If you want to distort image into full circle, {@link lens.vpx.HORIZONTAL_TILE} virtual
pixel method is recommended to use in order to hide small gap between edges.


---

##### Links

* [Arc Distortion details](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#arc) at ImageMagick
docs. 

---

Navigate: < {@tutorial 03.02.perspective} | ^ {@tutorial 03.00.distortions}