### Introduction

Perspective distortion allows to transform images in such way that some part of image
become looking closer and the other part looking closer. In perspective distortion
straight lines remains straight, but parallel lines may not remain parallel.

The use cases of perspective distortion are e.g. [image registration](
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_registration), [perspective control](
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perspective_control) and others.

Perspective distortion is defined by following equations:

```
     sx*Xs + ry*Ys + tx,         rx*Xs + sy*Ys + ty
Xd = -------------------,   Yd = -------------------
     px*Xs + py*Ys + 1.0         px*Xs + py*Ys + 1.0
```
where `Xd`, `Yd` are destination image coords, `Xs`, `Ys` are source image coords and
`sx`, `ry`, `tx`, `rx`, `sy`, `ty`, `px`, `py`, `1` are coefficients of equations that
can be written in matrix form:

```
+--------------+
| sx | ry | tx |
----------------
| rx | sy | ty |
----------------
| px | py |  1 |
+--------------+ 
```

The first 6 values of matrix is in fact the same coefficients to that of the
{@tutorial 03.01.affine}, though they are slightly reordered to be more logical
(in 'matrix math' terms, the first 6 elements have been diagonally transposed).

The extra two arguments `px`, `py` form a scaling divisor to the whole distortion which
causes the image to look smaller in the specific direction according to the values
given, and thus giving the distorted image the perspective 'distance' effect.
If these two values are set to zero, perspective distortion becomes equivalent to
affine distortion.

#### Best fit viewport

Perspective Distortion supports `{@link DistortionOptions}#bestFit` option, so it can
compute output image virtual viewport to contain whole distorted image. 


### Usage

Perspective distortion comes in two forms of usage.

#### Using control points

You can pass array of control points mapping as arguments for {@link lens.distorts.PERSPECTIVE}
distortion type:

```javascript
var distorted = lens.distort(
  image,
  lens.distorts.PERSPECTIVE, // Control points form of Perspective distortion
  [u0, v0, x0, y0, /* ... */, uN, vN, xN, yN], // Control points array
  {
    async: false
  }
);
``` 

Here `u*`, `v*` are source image coords, `x*`, `y*` are destination image coords.

Perspective matrix coefficients will be calculated from these control points.

Perspective distortion requires at least 4 sets of control points (16 values). However,
if you pass less than 4 sets — Lens will fallback to use Affine distortion instead. In
that case a warning message will be output to console.

If more than 4 sets of control points are given, Least Squares method will be used to
determine most accurate fitting for distortion.


#### Using forward mapping perspective matrix

You can pass array of Perspective matrix coefficients for
{@link lens.distorts.PERSPECTIVE_PROJECTION} distortion type.

These coefficient are (from equations above): [`sx`, `ry`, `tx`, `rx`, `sy`, `ty`,
`px`, `py`]. You don't need to pass 9th coefficient, as it is constant 1.

```javascript
var distorted = lens.distort(
  image,
  lens.distorts.PERSPECTIVE_PROJECTION, // Forward matrix form of Perspective distortion
  [sx, ry, tx, rx, sy, ty, px, py], // Forward mapping matrix coefficients
  {
    async: false
  }
);
```

Internally, this forward matrix will be inverted to get {@tutorial 02.02.reverse-pixel-mapping}
perspective matrix.


### Viewing distant horizons

*See [Viewing Distant Horizons](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#horizon)
at ImageMagick distortions guide for examples.*

If you adjust control points or forward matrix to produce vanishing point inside image
bounds, a 'horizon' will appear, which is the line on one side of which lies image
plane — image pixels itself and virtual pixels; and on the other side lies 'sky' —
pixels which coords maps to infinity in the source image. 

The 'sky' will only appear in perspective distorted images when the resulting image
is highly foreshortened by the distortion.

These invalid pixels are transparent by default in Lens. You can change their color
by specifying custom color at `{@link DistortionOptions}#matteColor` option.

See also {@tutorial 02.05.virtual-pixels-and-matte}.

---

##### Links
* [Perspective Distortion details](https://www.imagemagick.org/Usage/distorts/#perspective)
at ImageMagick docs.
* [Affine transformations (and cousins)](http://www.leptonica.org/affine.html) at http://www.leptonica.org

---

Navigate: < {@tutorial 03.01.affine} | ^ {@tutorial 03.00.distortions} |
{@tutorial 03.03.arc} >